Release notes to Sprint 66 (`25.01`) (#634)
validmind/documentation: site/releases/2025/2025-jan-31/release-notes.qmd

---
title: "January 31, 2025"
---

## Release highlights — `25.01`

::: {.callout}
Our documentation now follows the new **unified versioning scheme** for our software, starting with this `25.01` release. Included in this release:

- **{{< var validmind.developer >}} — `v2.7.7`**
- **{{< var validmind.platform >}} — `v1.29.10`**

## Why a unified versioning scheme?

We manage multiple repositories, each with its own version tags. The new versioning scheme replaces the {{< var validmind.developer >}} version in the documentation to clarify that each release includes code from multiple repositories rather than a single source.

This change simplifies tracking changes for each {{< var vm.product >}} release and streamlines version management for you. Release frequency and the upgrade process remain unchanged.
:::

<!---
PR #1117: User Dashboards
URL: https://github.com/validmind/frontend/pull/1117
Labels: enhancement
--->

> ### Custom reports and dashboards

Author: Removed here but added the tech deep dive blog post to the December release notes in 125412aeb0f99b8729302606ff0dfcab1fad5b66.

> ### Custom reports and dashboards

Author: Yup, added.

> ### Custom reports and dashboards

Reviewer: Somehow you borked the ToC when you added stuff to that page, so I've fixed it and since the button didn't match the rest I actually just replaced it with the listing tile as it's special content: 

| Old | New |
|---|---|
|<img width="1472" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-31 at 3 36 50 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/54848a56-a814-4db1-8417-c5ae903f946f" /> | <img width="1271" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-31 at 3 46 38 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5b58623a-cbdc-49a2-b84e-2a02d6a4bcc0" />|

> ### Custom reports and dashboards

Reviewer: This wasn't entirely done — for example, this was clearly meant to live under "ValidMind Platform" and the `Enhancements` section wasn't updated.

<img width="1281" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-31 at 3 31 57 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/875823e2-e3bc-4cd5-815b-aa225c3857f6" />

Also, from before I even started here, the convention has been to list the library first, then the platform, so I changed the order of the items.

Just doing a proper read-through of the content now.

<!-- ![View mode for your dashboard](401290475-80a68ccb-2d56-417b-82d2-2d6a85766f30.png){width="809" fig-alt="A screenshot showing view mode" .screenshot} -->

To prevent any confusion when multiple people are working on the same dashboard, we've added some helpful safeguards:

- If someone else makes changes while you're editing, you'll get a friendly notification to reload the page
- The system automatically detects if you're looking at an older version of the dashboard and prompts you to get the latest updates

<!-- NR TO DO Are we missing docs for Edit Mode? -->

::: {.tr}
[Customize your dashboard](/guide/configuration/customize-your-dashboard.qmd){.button}
:::

<!---
PR #263: Add Initial Support for Post-Processing Functions
URL: https://github.com/validmind/validmind-library/pull/263
Labels: enhancement, highlight
---> 
<!-- ### Add initial support for post-processing functions

Adding support for post-processing functions -->

### New code samples

<!---
PR #256: [SC-7588] Explore dynamic llm context injection in test descriptions
URL: https://github.com/validmind/validmind-library/pull/256
Labels: enhancement
--->

> #### Add context to LLM-based descriptions

Reviewer 2: "Add context to enhance LLM-based text generation for model test results

Author: Updated as suggested.

> You can now include contextual information in LLM-based descriptions. This enhancement improves test result descriptions by incorporating additional context that can be specified through environment variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now include contextual information to enhance LLM-based generation of test results descriptions and interpretations. This enhancement improves test result descriptions by incorporating additional context that can be specified through environment variables.
```

A new notebook demonstrates adding context to LLM-based descriptions with examples of:

- Setting up the environment
- Initializing datasets and models
- Running tests with and without context
:::

::: {.w-50-ns .tr}
[Adding Context to LLM-based Descriptions](https://github.com/validmind/validmind-library/blob/main/notebooks/code_sharing/llm/llm_descriptions_context.ipynb){.button}
:::

::::

<!-- To support this feature, a new `_get_llm_global_context()` function in the `test_descriptions.py` script retrieves context from environment variables. This function validates that context is enabled and not empty before use. Additionally, the `generate_description` function has been updated to include this contextual information in the LLM description generation process. -->

<!---
PR #280: [SC-7864] Create credit risk scorecard notebook using XGBoost
URL: https://github.com/validmind/validmind-library/pull/280
Labels: enhancement
--->
#### Document credit risk scorecard models using XGBoost

We've introduced enhancements to the {{< var validmind.developer >}} that focus on documenting credit risk scorecard models:

:::: {.flex .flex-wrap .justify-around}

::: {.w-50-ns .pr4}

> - **New notebooks**: Two Jupyter Notebooks demonstrate how to document application scorecard models using the {{< var vm.developer >}}. 

Reviewer 2: the difference between the two notebooks is not clear

Author: Clarified in the links and text — you can choose from three different approaches: **running individual tests**, **running a full test suite**, or **using a single function** to document a model.

Modifications have also been made to existing tests to improve functionality and accuracy. The [`TooManyZeroValues`](/tests/data_validation/TooManyZeroValues.md) test now includes a row count and applies a percentage threshold for zero values.

The [`split`](/validmind/validmind/datasets/regression/lending_club.html#preprocess){target="_blank"} function in `lending_club.py` has been enhanced to support an optional validation set, allowing for more flexible dataset splitting.

A new utility function, [`get_demo_test_config`](/validmind/validmind/datasets/credit_risk/lending_club.html#get_demo_test_config){target="_blank"}, has been added to generate a default test configuration for demo purposes.

<!---
PR #290: [SC-8008] Ongoing monitoring notebook for application scorecard model
URL: https://github.com/validmind/validmind-library/pull/290
Labels: enhancement
--->
#### Ongoing monitoring notebook for application scorecard model

Several enhancements to the {{< var validmind.developer >}} focus on documenting and testing credit risk scorecard models and ongoing monitoring capabilities:

> - **New notebooks**: Two new notebooks for application scorecard models and ongoing monitoring provide step-by-step guides for using the {{< var validmind.developer >}} with credit risk datasets:

Reviewer 2: I think we should focus this section on the notebook to illustrate how to use ValidMind to document an ongoing monitoring report for application scorecard.

Author: Reworked the section to be only about ongoing monitoring and moved the notebook as suggested (the monitoring is for the model in that notebook, so I included an inline link in the text to it).

:::: {.flex .flex-wrap .justify-around}

::: {.w-50-ns .pl4 .pr4}
- Use our new metrics for data and model drift, and populate the ongoing monitoring documentation for a scorecard model.
:::

::: {.w-50-ns .tr}
[Ongoing monitoring for application scorecard](https://jupyterhub.validmind.ai/hub/user-redirect/lab/tree/code_samples/ongoing_monitoring/application_scorecard_ongoing_monitoring.ipynb){.button}
:::

::::

:::: {.flex .flex-wrap .justify-around}

::: {.w-50-ns .pl4 .pr4}
- Document a scorecard model with just the `lending_club.document_model()` function.
:::

::: {.w-50-ns .tr}

> [Document an application scorecard model](https://jupyterhub.validmind.ai/hub/user-redirect/lab/tree/code_samples/credit_risk/application_scorecard_executive.ipynb){.button}

Reviewer 2: shouldn't this notebook belong in the prior section about credit scorecard models? This section should be focused on the ongoing monitoring notebook

```bash
make notebook
```
::: {.tc .pt5}
[End-to-end notebook template generation](https://github.com/validmind/validmind-library/blob/main/notebooks/templates/e2e-notebook.ipynb){.button}
:::
:::

::: {.w-50-ns .pl4 .nt4}
#### Mini-templates

The template generation notebook draws from a number of mini-templates, should you need to revise them or grab the information from them manually:

- `about-validmind.ipynb`: Conceptual overview of ValidMind & prerequisites.
- `install-initialize-validmind.ipynb`: ValidMind Library installation & initialization instructions.
- `next-steps.ipynb`: Directions to review the generated documentation within the ValidMind Platform & additional learning resources.
- `upgrade-validmind.ipynb`: Instructions for comparing & upgrading versions of the ValidMind Library.
:::

::::

## Enhancements

<!---
PR #1179: [SC-8104] Support configurable default models in Admin UI
URL: https://github.com/validmind/frontend/pull/1179
Labels: enhancement
--->
<!-- NR should this be commented out? -->
### Configurable default models

:::: {.flex .flex-wrap .justify-around}

::: {.w-40-ns .pr4}

> Administrators can now create organizations without models, allowing more flexibility in during onboarding. 

Reviewer 2: I believe this is something only "staff admins" for customer-hosted ValidMind will be able to access (confirm with @cachafla ). If yes, then we should make this clear. Also, I don't believe we are explaining anywhere where to access the admin utility?

We've introduced a new parameter `allow_duplicates` to the `CreateInventoryModel` function in the `API.ts` file. The `allow_duplicates` parameter is a boolean that determines whether duplicate inventory models are allowed when creating a new inventory model.

![Screenshot 2025-01-13 at 10:26:25 AM](402655672-79e6bae5-efe0-4be0-a772-3047f483f031.png){width="1475" .screenshot} -->

<!---
PR #1132: Added Model Inventory Page layout customization
URL: https://github.com/validmind/frontend/pull/1132
Labels: enhancement
--->
<!-- NR TO DO this needs info ... Might be a highlight -->
<!-- ### Added model inventory page layout customization

Added the ability to customize the layout of the model inventory -->

<!---
PR #1172: [SC-8043] Show optional prompt for Risk Assessment
URL: https://github.com/validmind/frontend/pull/1172
Labels: enhancement
--->
### Optional prompt for risk assessments

Risk assessment generation has been enhanced to allow you to provide an optional prompt before starting text generation. This feature lets you guide the output, ensuring that the generated text aligns more closely with your specific requirements.

> ![Optional prompt for risk assessments](402640824-492758fc-2669-46c6-9c81-198e990b9efe.png){.screenshot}

Author: True! I will record an animated GIF and avoid the pirates. 🏴‍☠️

> ![Optional prompt for risk assessments](402640824-492758fc-2669-46c6-9c81-198e990b9efe.png){.screenshot}

Author: Replaced with an animated GIF that shows me entering a prompt, the text being generated, and then accepting those risk assessment notes.

:::

::::
This enhancement provides immediate visual context for metric values. It helps track metric performance against multiple defined thresholds over time.

Usage example:

```
log_metric(
    key="AUC Score",
    value=auc,
    recorded_at=datetime(2024, 1, 1),
    thresholds={
        "high_risk": 0.6,
        "medium_risk": 0.7,
        "low_risk": 0.8,
    }
)
```

<!---
PR #1125: [SC-7628] updates to admin landing page
URL: https://github.com/validmind/frontend/pull/1125
Labels: enhancement
--->
<!-- ### Updates to admin landing page

Only in case we are starting to document the admin app

The landing page/admin checks whether you are authenticated and authorized. You can find the rules in the ticket description above. -->

<!---
PR #1124: ReportCounters are now clickable
URL: https://github.com/validmind/frontend/pull/1124
Labels: enhancement
--->
<!-- NR Not enough info here, PR description is not clear, either -->
<!-- ### Report counters are now clickable

Counter visualizations are now clickable -->

<!---
PR #1096: Simplifies workflow nodes and introduces zoom-based detail
URL: https://github.com/validmind/frontend/pull/1096
Labels: enhancement
--->

> ### Simplified workflow nodes

Author: Cropped!

Zooming in reveals more details:

![Workflow visualization in zoomed-out view](388211631-995714ee-be70-4ea5-b0f6-46e1ec3294ed.png){width="1552" fig-alt="A screenshot showing the simplified workflow visualization" .screenshot}  

Hovering over a node highlights all `in` and `out` connections, making relationships clearer:

![Workflow connection highlighting on hover](388212015-b560f745-c9e9-45d9-91e8-1bae6887130b.png){width="1552" fig-alt="A screenshot showing the workflow connection highlighting" .screenshot}  

<!---
PR #1128: [SC-7684] admin manage users
URL: https://github.com/validmind/frontend/pull/1128
Labels: enhancement
--->

<!-- ### Admin manage users

Adding users management to admin app - list users, create user

---

Adding admin tools with option for `RBAC` refresh -->

<!---
PR #274: [SC-7759] Exposing static descriptions in test results
URL: https://github.com/validmind/validmind-library/pull/274
Labels: enhancement
--->
### Static descriptions in test results

:::: {.flex .flex-wrap .justify-around}

::: {.w-70-ns}

> The `TestResult` class now has a `doc` property to separate static test documentation from LLM-generated descriptions:

Author: Reworked to explain static test descriptions and added link. Thank you — your comment helped me understand this feature.
